{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18020\viewh13280\viewkind0
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1637\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}\CocoaLigature0 mysql> SELECT first_name "First_Name",  last_name "Last_Name" FROM employees\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	2.	}\CocoaLigature0 mysql> SELECT Department_ID FROM employees;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	3.	}\CocoaLigature0 mysql> SELECT * FROM employees ORDER BY first_name DESC;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	4.	}\CocoaLigature0 mysql> SELECT Employee_ID, first_name, last_name  FROM employees ORDER BY salary ASC;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	5.	}\CocoaLigature0 mysql> SELECT Employee_ID, first_name, last_name, salary  FROM employees ORDER BY salary ASC;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	6.	}\CocoaLigature0 SELECT COUNT(*) FROM employees;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	7.	}\CocoaLigature0 SELECT first_name, last_name, salary FROM employees WHERE salary NOT BETWEEN 10 000 AND 15 000;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	8.	}\CocoaLigature0 SELECT first_name, last_name, department_ID FROM employees ORDER BY DEPARTMENT_ID DESC;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	9.	}\CocoaLigature0 SELECT first_name, last_name, HIRE_DATE FROM EMPLOYEES WHERE YEAR(HIRE_DATE) LIKE "1987%";\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	10.	}\CocoaLigature0 SELECT last_name, job_id, salary FROM employees WHERE job_id IN ('IT_PROG', 'SH_CLERK') AND salary NOT IN (4500,10000, 15000);\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	11.	}select * from employees where last_name in ('BLAKE', 'SCOTT', 'KING\'92, \'92FORD\'92);\
{\listtext	12.	}\CocoaLigature0  select SUM(salary)  -> FROM employees;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	13.	}\CocoaLigature0 select MIN(salary)   -> from employees;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	14.	}\CocoaLigature0 select avg (salary)  -> from employees where Department_ID = 90;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	15.	}\CocoaLigature0 select job_id, COUNT(*) from employees group by job_id;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	16.	}\CocoaLigature0 SELECT job_id, AVG(salary) FROM employees WHERE job_id != \'91IT_PROG' GROUP BY job_id;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	17.	}\CocoaLigature0 select location_id, street_address, city, state_province, country_name from locations natural join countries;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	18.	}\CocoaLigature0 select first_name, last_name, department_ID from employees natural join departments;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	19.	}\CocoaLigature0 select employee_id,last_name,manager_id from employees;\
\ls1\ilvl0\CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	20.	}select employee_id,job_title from job_history natural join JOBS WHERE DEPARTMENT_ID = 90;\
{\listtext	21.	}select employee_id, job_title, end_date - start_date from job_history natural join jobs where department_id = '90';\
{\listtext	22.	}select first_name, last_name, hire_date, salary, (DATEDIFF(NOW(),hire_date))/365 Experience FROM departments d JOIN employee e ON (d.manager_id = e.employee_id) WHERE (DATEDIFF(NOW(), hire_date))/365>15;\
{\listtext	23.	}select date(((period_add(extrac(year_month FROM CURDATE()),-3)*100)+1));\
{\listtext	24.	}SELECT MAKEDATE(EXTRACT(YEAR FROM CURDATE()),1)\
{\listtext	25.	}SELECT DATE_FORMAT(CURDATE(),\'92%M,%e,%Y) AS \'91Current_date\'92);\
{\listtext	26.	}select first_name,last_name FROM employees WHERE(hire_date) = 6;\
{\listtext	27.	}select first_name, sysdate(),hire_date,datediff(sysdate(),hire_date)/365 from employees;\
}